Requirements
============

Slag primary platform is GNU/Linux. The build process is almost the same on
other platforms. See files README.YourPlatform for specific notes about your
platform.

These libraries are mandatory :

  - Qt 4, http://www.trolltech.com/products/qt
  - libsndfile, http://www.mega-nerd.com/libsndfile/
  - libsamplerate, http://www.mega-nerd.com/SRC/

You'll also need at least one of these for audio ouput :

  - JACK, http://jackit.sourceforge.net/
  - libao, http://www.xiph.org/ao/

Actually, it's possible to compile Slag with neither JACK nor libao. You won't
hear anything but you'll be able to see the GUI.

To compile succesfully, you may need to set the QTDIR environment variable to
point to your Qt library path. You also need to have the pkg-config utility 
installed.

Installation
============

If you made a checkout from CVS, you'll need to generate the ./configure 
script. It requires to have the autoconf package installed and to type :

$ make -f Makefile.cvs

To compile and install the program, type the following command :

$ ./configure --prefix=/where/to/install

Slag doesn't need to run as root. You can install it in a directory under your
home directory. If you don't provide a --prefix option to ./configure , Slag
will however try to install in /usr/local and you'll need to be root to make
install. You may want to pass --enable-debug option to enable debug code. Its
useful if you find a bug and want to send me a core dump but the code won't be
optimized by the compiler. Installed audio output libraries should be
automatically detected.

Then type :

$ make
$ make install

Usage
=====

To run the program just type :

$ slag

It will start with the default song loaded.  If you run slag with -h option
you'll see available command line options. Slag try to use JACK for audio output
by default. You must use -a option to use libao, and then use the settings
dialog to make this choice persistant.   If you have problems with libao, be
sure that it's configured to use an available output: check /etc/libao.conf or
~/.libao files.  See man libao.conf for details. The -v option prints some debug
informations.

Configuration is stored in file ~/.qt/slagrc.

See http://www.nongnu.org/slag/tutorial.html for tips on Slag usage.

Contact
=======

This is my first open source software so don't hesitate to send feedback. Even
if I did my best to make Slag stable, you may find bugs. Don't hesitate to send
a mail at <al@alpage.org> with a description of the bug, and the way to
reproduce it if you can. See file AUTHORS for other contributors.

License
=======

Slag is released under the GNU General Public License, see file COPYING for
details. Included sound files are by opm from FreeSound website
<http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/usersViewSingle.php?id=1622> and are released
under the Creative Commons Sampling Plus 1.0 License. See files in sounds
directory for details.
